The year was 2015, and food workers
in the meat and bakery departments were busy.
The meat employees were mixing raw pork sausage.
The bakery workers were preparing a batch
of delicious chocolate mousse cake.
Together, the team fulfilled all its orders.
Another successful day at work.
or was it?
Over the next few weeks, 16 people tested positive for E. coli infection.
Another nine reported symptoms.
The health department investigation confirmed
that the chocolate mousse cake was to blame.
So what happened?
How did E. coli bacteria get into the cake?
Write your thoughts in the box below.
If you need a hint, just let us know!
Did you notice that the bakery workers
used the same mixer as the meat department employees?
The raw pork probably left E. coli bacteria in the mixer,
which spread to the chocolate mousse when the bakers borrowed it.
The mousse wasn't cooked to a hot enough temperature to kill E. coli,
so the germs survived and made 25 chocolate lovers sick.
E. coli are a common cause of food poisoning.
Most people recover after a few days,
but in rare cases a serious complication causes
the kidneys to stop working.
As a food worker, it's part of your job to prevent food hazards like this.